---
title: 4.1 What is OMSF’s backstory?
categories: [ "Other" ]
colors: "pink"
---

OMSF sprouted from the Open Force Field Initiative as we began figuring out how to manage the evolving needs of this distributed project working on development of new force fields. This Initiative brings together academic and industry researchers to work collaboratively towards the same goal -- creating more accurate force fields based on open source infrastructure, open science and open data. Some of the challenges the OpenFF Initiative has faced over time are specific to the effort, of course, but many represent known problems in research software development and in the field of molecular sciences. We know from experience what it’s like to want to work on cool science and software, but instead becoming mired in burdensome bureaucracy and legalities, complex employment and procurement processes, and slow response times when you need to move fast. We’ve felt the pain of not having clear and direct insights into our finances, and how complicated it can be to set up a contract with pharmaceutical companies, manage licensing and contributor agreements, etc. We also know that research software development can benefit from the support of documentation writers, UX designers, etc., but resources and logistics can make it difficult to establish and fill these roles in the traditional academic settings. Additionally, most universities lack a framework which allows career progression for software scientists / research software engineers, resulting in such individuals transitioning to more lucrative positions outside the field. The COVID19 pandemic introduced further complications with hiring personnel, when travel and relocation became even more cumbersome or outright impossible.  

We sought to create a lean, but effective organization that would help us as well as others. Enter the Open Molecular Software Foundation, established in March 2021, as an attempt to scratch our own itches, but also to create a supportive framework for open source projects in molecular sciences where we can solve common problems and share expertise, resources, and costs. We seek to help open source projects to not just survive but thrive. But, there is a long road ahead and we recognize that we have a lot to learn – we invite you to join us on this journey and help us build a valuable resource for the entire community.
